Configuring Partner Connections

Partner Connections are connections to a friend over the internet. You
get a chat window and, once you start a game, a board window. In
contrast to the internet go servers, you get an accurate timing of your
contemplation.

Any partner will have to start a server, waiting for connections. The
other partner uses the connect button to connect to this server. This
procedure establishes the connection. You can set the port of the
server, but should use 6970. Furthermore, you should assign a unique
name to your server.

To setup your partner connection, press the Edit or Add button in the
lower half. You will have to enter

- Your partners internet address.
- Your partners port (should be 6970)
- The status of the partner (see below for this)

To configure your server, you should set your name with the
corresponding menu entry to inform your partner about you. The suggest
format is "Your Name (Strength)". Do not change the port from the
default 6970. You can do so, but need an agreement with your partners,
who want to connect with you.

Your partner needs to start the server with the corresponding menu item.
A started server waits for request on the specific port. To connect,
press the Connect button in the lower half. Enjoy your chat and game!

If you start a public server, Jago will publish this to all your partner
connections, which have a state other than "silent". These servers will
again tell your server start to other connected servers, unless they have
a state "private". A "local" state means that the partners may publish
your server start to connected servers, but these may not further
publish it. This is the meaning of the partners state flag.

Furthermore, any server which has received your server start will send
back a list of open servers known to him. He will obey the rules of
privacy mentioned above. You can view the list of open servers with the
"open?" button.

Using this feature, you can build up a smaller or larger network of open
servers.

The described communication is done by sending datagrams to the
partners. For this purpose a port is used. This port is the partner's
port plus 2 - so normally 6972.

Stopping your server will yield "server is busy" messages for your
partners. However, the thread, which takes note on open servers keeps
running.

