Playing Games

To make a move, you simply click on the board. If you are playing over 
the internet, the move will be sent to the server, and appears on your 
board, only when the server accepted the move.

Setting the handicap is done in differnet ways for local and non-local
games. In local games, you set the black stones and choose "White to
play" to start the game. In internet games, you use the handicap
command. Send

handicap 6

to the server for a six stone handicap. The server will set the handicap
stones on your board.

You can use the pass command in local and non-local games.

During the game, you may create and inspect variations (see the section
about variations). Use the ** button to get back to the current game
position. You may even create a variation to the current board position
and study it.

Finishing the game is different for local and non-local games again.

To finish a local game use the "Remove groups" menu item to remove 
prisoners and then the "Score" item to get the final score. You get a 
Chinese and a Japanese count. This program does not take care of Seki 
territory, which should not be counted according to Japanese rules. In 
most cases, Seki territory will balance anyway.

To finish a non-local game, pass. If your opponent passes too, you 
will get a message from the server (IGS requires three passes though).
Choose "Remove groups" from the menu and remove all dead groups. These
removals will be sent to the server. Please ignore any errors of the
server about the removal of empty groups. Those groups may already
have been removed by your partner. After removing all dead stones,
choose "Local Score". This will score locally. If you are satisfied
with the score, send the Done command to the server (there is a menu
entry for this). The server will do its own scoring and will notify
you of the result.

In case, you want to undo removals, protocols behave differenty
between IGS and NNGS. In any case, stones will appear immediately when
you press undo. However, NNGS resets the position to the one before
the last pass. So, you have to pass once more. IGS does not, but does
notify the other player of your undo. This player should press undo
too. That method should work. Alternatively the oterh player can clear
all removals in the current board with the menu option.

To finish a game with a go partner, refer to the section in the Partner
Connection help.

However, you may use the local group removal and scoring in any
variation of an internet game. So you can check your score off-line,
before ending the game. In this case, take care of the Komi!
