About Variations

Games are stored as trees. Each node of the tree can have many children.
Going down from the root node and taking the first child every time is
the main variation. All other variations are considered side varations.

You create a variation to the current move by clicking to an alternative
position for this move while holding down the SHIFT key. This kind of
variation can be seen easily on the board by the green dots. You can
switch to any of these variation by clicking on it and holding down the
CONTROL key.

You can also create variations and switch to them with the right mouse
button.

There are two styles of variation display. Variations can displayed as
alternatives to the current move, or as possible next moves. In any
case, the variations are displayed as green dots on the board. One can
also hide information display completely, in the case the SGF author
provided board marks for the variations. Even then, it is possible to
switch to a variation with the right mouse button (or by holding
the control key). The settings for the variations display can be found
in the board menu.

Each node may have a name, which you set with the insert key or the
corresponding menu item. There is a menu item to search for the next
named node. The node name displays below the board, but only if the
cursor is off the board.

A node may also have a comment, which is displayed and changed in the 
comment window (disable the Kibitz windows for non-local games). There 
is a function to search for strings in comments. the search will scan 
all variations and end in the root node, if no hits are found.

It is also possible to create a variation with the corresponding menu
item. In this case, an empty node will be added as a variation. A new
stone will now be set into this empty node, unless you add some comment
or other actions to this node before you set the stone. In this case a
moveless node will be present.

This feature can be used to analyze an on-line game locally. Create a 
new variation and set your opponents last move. Then study the 
position. Changes will not be applied to your main tree, but to the 
generated side variation.

You may also add an empty node at each end of the game tree with the
corresponding menu entry.

Note that the numbering starts with 1 in each variation.

On non-local boards, some actions may be blocked for the main variation,
because it is assumed to be controlled by the server. Moves at the end
of the main variations may be sent to the server instead of the board.
The server sets the move later, but you get a feedback marker, once the
move has been sent to the server.
