Board Window

This window contains the following elements:

- the menu
- the board itself
- an information label
- a label displaying the field coordinates under the cursor
- the undo button
- the movement buttons
- variation buttons
- a send button, if it is not a local board
- a comment window (or Kibitz window)

The Menu

The file menu lets you empty the board, save it to disk or load a game
from disk. Emtying and loading are enabled only for local boards. The
same applies to changing the board size, which is done automatically for
internet games.

The settings menu lets you choose, if you play, who is to play, or if
you do special things. You can set marks to empty places and stones, or
set the letters a,b,c... You can even remove stones from the board.
Setting up a handicap is done by placing black stones to the board and
choosing the "White to play" button. There is also an option to remove
all marks.

Note, that while playing a game over the internet, the server controls
the move. So your move is not valid until it is confirmed by the server.
This only applies to the main variation. In side variations, you can do
whatever you want.

There is a menu to modify the game tree by creating empty nodes. Please
refer to the help about variations for details.

The score command is used to finish the game. Refer to the help about
playing a game for more information.

The Board

The board displays the current situation. Marks are displayed in blue
and letters in yellow. The last move is emphasized by a white rectangle.
Variations are marked by green dots (refer to the help about
variations). A gray marker is displayed for moves, which are sent but
not yet confirmed by the server.

Below the board, you see a label, displaying information about the
expected action. It will also show, if you are in the main variation by
a star (*), and if you are at the end of the main variation by a double
star (**). Beside it, you see the coordinates under your mouse cursor.

The Buttons

The undo button works differently over the net and locally. Over the
net and at the end of the main variation, it will send the undo command.
This command is used to undo the move of the opponent and may only be
used, if it is your turn. Elsewhere, this button removes the last move.

The direction buttons are used to go up and down in the variation.

The variation buttons are used to switch between variations. The V
button will go upwards to the first move of the current variation. The *
button will go upwards to the main variation and the ** button will jump
to the end of the main variation.

The send button is used on non-local board to send commands to the
server quickly.

Comment Window

This area may either be used by a Kibitz window or a comment window. 
The Kibitz window is only available in on-line games of course. You 
can watch the flow of the Kibitz rather than seeing only the Kibitz 
comments per move. However, you can always switch to the comment 
window with a menu option. The Kibitz windows may also display server 
output.

This comment area lets you add comments to your game. Some comments 
are added by the server automatically. A line break in the comment 
window will be saved to the file as a paragraph break.

Optional things

If you have chosen the option, there will be an extra send field.
Entering text here and pressing return send the text unparsed to the
server.

Furthermore, there might be an information label containing the
remaining times for each player. If not, the times are displayed in the
window title or the big timer label above the comment area.

If chosen, the big timer will display the remaining times for white
and black (white time on the left). The timer will turn dark red,
if it is less than 60 seconds, and brighter red below 30 seconds.
If selected, warning ticks will sound on 30,20 and 10 seconds.

Board options

You can set the board color, stone and sparkle color in the options 
menu, but it is best to use a brownish tone. Furthermore, you can 
choose a nice wooden board and anti-aliased stones, which throw 
shadows on the board. This will take time to get computed at first 
display and every time you resize the board.

Note that some board options must to be chosen, before the board is 
opened. However, the coordinate layout and the true color options
are available at all times.
