Configuring your Connections

To setup your server connection, press the Edit or Add button in the
upper half. A dialog appears, where you have to enter the following
items:

- Connection name: This is the name, that should appear in the
  connections list.
- Server: The internet name of the server. See below for a list
  of available servers.
- Port: The port the server is watching (see below). If you plan to
  connect through a telnet session (see "About Firewalls"), enter 23.
- User name: The name your are using on the server. If you want a guest
  account, leave this field empty and follow the instructions of your 
  server.
- Password: Your login password for the server. If you leave this open,
  you will be prompted for the password every time, unless you did not set 
  your user name.
- Move Style: Do not change this from the default "move" unless you know
  what you are doing.
- Encoding: This determines, how strings are translated between Java and
  the server. When you add a new connection, you will see your default
  codepage. For Europe it is 8859_1 or Cp1252. If you leave this empty,
  default local codepage will be used. You may try ASCII in any case.
  If you prepend the codepage with a !, Telnet filtering will be avoided.

Here are the internet names (addresses) and the ports of the existing
servers:

igs.nuri.net 6969
nngs.cosmic.org 9696
lgs.hinet.net 9696
wing.brlnet.net 1515

JagoClient should be preconfigured with these servers.

Problems with encodings

Some code pages contain more than 256 characters. To adjust for this
the server sends sequences of characters following a pattern, the
so-called encoding. Howerver, there might be a format error, if you
have the wrong encoding. In this case, the connection is closed and
you get a MalFormedInputException.

To overcome this, use the correct encoding or some innocent encoding
like 8859_1 or even ASCII. As a further difficulty, the server may
send Telnet characters, which confuses the decoder. This is normally
filtered out automatically, which again may confuse the decoder. If
you experience problems with a codepage, try prepending the codepage
with ! (as in "!Cp1552"). Now, Jago will not try to filter out Telnet
commands. If that still does not work, use "!ASCII", then "ASCII".
